

--- Page 1 ---





--- Page 2 ---



coworkers [39, 40]; however, significant progress in RDM methods was limited until improvements in both theory and computation were made in the 1990s. A key element in the development of variational 2-RDM (V2RDM) theory was the emergence of improved techniques for a class of constrained optimization known as semidefinite programming [41], a method for minimizing the energy of electronic system as a functional of the 2-RDM subject to N-representability conditions [37, 38, 42 49].

While V2RDM theory predates the recent resurgence of interest in bootstrapping methods, its foundational reliance on constraints that encode physical or symmetrical properties aligns with the broader concept of bootstrapping—a strategy introduced in the 1970s that leverages such constraints to iteratively refine solutions [50, 51]. Advances in numerical techniques, including semidefinite programming, have contributed to renewed interest in bootstrapping strategies [52], and recent applications to electronic structure using RDMs share conceptual similarities with V2RDM theory [53, 54]. Importantly, V2RDM theory provides a deeper and more systematic framework, extending beyond the principles of bootstrapping by incorporating a richer set of representability conditions grounded in the study of reduced density matrices of many-body quantum systems [37, 38].

Because the 2-RDM is intrinsically multireferenced, methods based on RDMs are particularly well-suited to treating strong correlation. The cumulant of the 2-RDM is also associated with clear metrics for entanglement and correlation [55–58], and the 2-RDM itself is inherently applicable to exploring strongly correlated phenomena that depend on pairing interactions [59–62]. Moreover, 2-RDM methods offer advantages for treating strongly correlated systems where the system size is challenging for wavefunction-based methods because minimization of only the 2-RDM rather than the N-particle wavefunction is less costly. Application of this method to large molecular systems has yielded insight into a variety of strongly correlated effects [63 65] and previous adaptation of the method to periodic systems in the Γ-point approximation [66] indicates its potential for the treatment of correlated materials.

Here, we generalize V2RDM theory for the electronic structure of quantum materials by adapting the method for application to periodic materials in k-space. In kspace, conservation of momentum enforces blocking of the RDMs that significantly reduces computational cost, allowing for the treatment of a large number of orbitals. We first demonstrate energetic convergence with respect to k-points for hydrogen chains and compare to several other methods. We then show the utility of the method for strongly correlated materials by applying it to transition metal dichalcogenides, a family of materials known to exhibit strong correlation and important quantum effects, as well as nickel oxide, a canonical example of a Mott insulator. Nickel oxide represents a system that presents a challenge for weakly correlated methods like

DFT. We characterize the electronic structure of nickel oxide using periodic V2RDM, showing results that are consistent with a Mott insulator.

In addition to periodic V2RDM, we present a strongly correlated alternative to conventional energy band structures, a fundamental tool in solid-state physics for characterizing the electronic nature of materials. In some cases conventional band structure theory does not accurately represent the effects of strong correlation. For example, conventional energy bands and DFT predict most Mott insulators, like nickel oxide, to be metallic with the band gap failing to open in the absence of strong correlation. We propose the characterization of materials based on natural-orbital occupation bands to represent correlation effects more accurately. This approach is applicable to any electronic structure method that generates a nonidempotent 1-RDM, thereby assisting in elucidating the effects of strong correlation in the electronic structure of materials.

## II. THEORY

According to the Bloch theorem, orbitals subject to periodic boundary conditions take the form [67]

1k1(r) = eik·rup

ϕp

1k1(r) (1) where up

1k1(r) is a function satisfying the periodicity of a system with wave vector k. The electronic Hamiltonian in k-space is defined as

p2k2 aˆ†p

1Hp

1k1

Hˆ =

1k1aˆp

2k2

p1p2 k1,k2

p3k3,p4k4 aˆ†p

1k1aˆ†p

2V p

1k1,p2k2

+

2k2aˆp

3k3aˆp

4k4

p1,p2,p3,p4 k1,k2,k3,k4

(2)

where ˆa†p

3k3) creates (destroys) an electron in orbital p1 (p3) for k-vector k1 (k3). The one-electron part is given by

1k1 (ˆap

- 1

- 2


1Hp

1k1

ϕ∗p

1k1(1)(∇1 + ik)2ϕp

p2k2 = −

2k2(1)d1 (3)

+ V p

1k1

p2k2 (4)

in which the left-hand term represents the kinetic energy and V p

1k1

p2k2 accounts for nuclear attraction and any pseudopotential contributions, and the two-electron part is given by

2V p

1k1,p2k2

p3k3,p4k4 =

ρp

p3k3(1)ρp

1k1

2k2

p4k4(2) r12

d1d2 (5)

where the ρp

1k1

p3k3(1) is the orbital density ρp

1k1

p3k3(1) = ϕ∗p

1k1(1)ϕp

3k3(1). (6)



--- Page 3 ---



The roman numbers 1 and 2 indicate the spatial and spin coordinates of electrons 1 and 2, respectively.

To solve for the energy using the 2-RDM, we recognize that the Hamiltonian contains only pairwise interactions and hence, the Hamiltonian can be reduced to the 2-body space. In the 2-body space, Eq. 2 is re-expressed in terms of the two-electron reduced Hamiltonian matrix, 2K [68]

p3k3,p4k4 aˆ†p

1k1aˆ†p

2Kp

1k1,p2k2

Hˆ =

2k2aˆp

3k3aˆp

4k4 (7)

p1,p2,p3,p4 k1,k2,k3,k4

where 2Kp

4 N − 1

1k1,p2k2

1Hp

p3k3 ∧ δp

1k1

p4k4 + 2V p

2k2

1k1,p2k2

p3k3,p4k4 =

p3k3,p4k4 (8)

in which ∧ is an antisymmetric tensor product known as the Grassmann wedge product [68, 69]. The electronic energy can then be minimized in the two-body space as a functional of the 2-RDM as follows

2Kp

1k1,p2k2 p3k3,p4k4

2Dp

1k1,p2k2 p3k3,p4k4

E

p1,p2,p3,p4 k1,k2,k3,k4

(9)

= Tr(2K 2D).

where the elements of the 2-RDM, 2D, are defined as 2Dp

p3k3,p4k4 = ⟨Ψ aˆ†p

1k1aˆ†p

1k1,p2k2

3k3|Ψ⟩ (10) with |Ψ⟩ being the N-particle wavefunction.

2k2aˆp

4k4aˆp

A. Variational 2-RDM Theory

Na¨ıve minimization of the ground-state energy as a functional of the 2-RDM yields electronic energies that are far below the exact energy [35]. The 2RDM must be constrained by the conditions for a density matrix—Hermitian, normalized (fixed trace), antisymmetric, and positive semidefinite—as well as additional conditions to ensure that it is representable by at least one N-electron density matrix, known as Nrepresentability conditions [35, 37 39]. A necessary set of N-representability conditions, known as the 2-positivity conditions [35, 37 39, 42], constrain each of three forms of the 2-RDM, corresponding to particle-particle, particlehole, and hole-hole probability distributions, to be positive semidefinite.

The variational 2-RDM theory with 2-positivity conditions minimizes the energy as a functional of the 2RDM subject to 2-positivity conditions [37, 38, 42–49]. Practically, the energy is minimized using a semidefinite program [38, 42, 43, 45–49, 70]

E[2D] (11)

E = min

2D∈2PN

subject to the constraint, 2PN = {2D|M ⪰ 0}, which denotes the set of N-representable 2-RDMs where

 

  ⪰ 0. (12)

2D 0 0 0 2Q 0 0 0 2G

M =

The 2Q and 2G matrices are the 2-hole and particle-hole RDMs, respectively, defined in terms of their elements as [35, 37 39, 42]

2k2aˆ†p

4k4aˆ†p

2Qp

1k1,p2k2

3k3|Ψk⟩ (13) 2Gp

p3k3,p4k4 = ⟨Ψk|aˆp

1k1aˆp

p3k3,p4k4 = ⟨Ψk|aˆ†p

2k2aˆ†p

1k1,p2k2

3k3|Ψk⟩. (14)

1k1aˆp

4k4aˆp

Additionally, 2D, 2Q, and 2G are related by linear mappings and must be Hermitian, antisymmetric, and have appropriate normalization. The semidefinite program is solved using the boundary-point method described in Ref. [47] with generalization to the complex plane. Because the 2-positivity conditions are necessary but not sufficient N-representability conditions, the V2RDM energy is a variational lower boundary on the ground-state energy in the finite orbital basis.

The total electronic ground-state energy from periodic V2RDM includes the following terms

Etot = Eactive + Ecore + Enuc + EMadelung (15)

where Eactive is the electronic energy from optimization within a specific active space using V2RDM, Ecore is the core energy calculated from the mean-field calculation for doubly-occupied core orbitals not included in the active space, Enuc is the nuclear repulsion energy, and EMadelung is the Madelung correction for the crystal lattice. To ensure normalization with respect to the number of kpoints (Nk), we scale the one-electron and two-electron terms in the one- and two-electron integrals by 1/Nk and 1/Nk2, respectively, prior to minimization with V2RDM. The one- and two-electron terms in the core energy are similarly normalized.

The boundary-point semidefinite program for V2RDM scales as r6 in floating-point operations and r4 in memory [47] for r one-electron orbitals. To reduce computational cost, k-point symmetry resulting from conservation of crystal momentum is enforced in the 1-RDM, 2-RDM, 2-hole RDM, and particle-hole RDM. Due to conservation of crystal momentum, the two-electron integrals (Eq. 5) are zero unless the k-vectors satisfy the relation:

(k1 + k2 k3 k4) · a = 2πn (16)

where a is the lattice vector of the crystal and n is an integer ranging from 1 to the number of k-points. This relation creates a block diagonal structure in the 1-RDM, 2-RDM, 2-hole RDM, and particle-hole RDM, which reduces the number of explicitly non-zero elements to be calculated in the 1-RDM from ractive2 Nk2 to ractive2 Nk where ractive is the number of active orbitals and Nk is the number of k-points—and the number of non-zero ele-

ments in the 2-RDM from ractive4 Nk4 to ractive4 Nk3. As the size of the system grows, enforcing this structure results

in significant computational savings, particularly for calculations with small active spaces but large numbers of k-points. Note that this means k-point sampling for periodic V2RDM must be performed homogeneously [71].



--- Page 4 ---



B. Strongly Correlated Band Structure

In solid-state physics, electronic band structure is central to interpreting the properties of a crystalline system. Analyzing band gaps, crossings of the Fermi level, and densities of electronic states allows for characterization of electronic properties of large-scale materials (e.g., distinguishing between metals, semi-conductors, and insulators). Consequently, electronic structure calculations of materials often center around producing well-resolved band structures [3, 67]. For semiconductors and insulators, conventional band theory provides an accurate description of the materials and DFT produces reasonably well-converged band structures. For strongly correlated materials, however, DFT has limitations that make characterizing their electronic structure difficult.

Energy band structures in DFT and mean-field methods are produced by sampling the Brillouin zone at certain k-points and interpolating between the orbital energies at those points. The orbital energies are the eigenvalues of the mean-field or uncorrelated matrix

1F⃗ci = ϵi⃗ci (17)

where ϵi are the eigenvalues corresponding to orbital energies, ⃗ci are the eigenvectors corresponding to the orbitals, and 1F is the mean-field or uncorrelated matrix, i.e., the Fock matrix or Kohn-Sham Hamiltonian. For the Hartree-Fock method, according to Koopman’s theorem, the eigenvalues of the highest occupied and lowest unoccupied orbitals correspond to the electron ionization and affinities, respectively; consequently, while lack of correlation makes the band structure predictions inaccurate, the differences between these orbital energies are nonetheless associated with the definition of the fundamental band gap. For DFT, such is not the case because the eigenvalues of the Kohn-Sham Hamiltonian do not directly correspond to electron addition and removal energies. This represents a fundamental limitation of DFT band structures known as the band gap problem [72]. Use of hybrid functionals or methods like DFT+U can help to ameliorate this problem; however, these methods only address the band gap problem limitation of DFT, not the issue of strong correlation in DFT.

Many strongly correlated materials, like strongly correlated metals or Mott insulators, present a challenge for conventional band theory and methods. This is in part because orbitals or bands in DFT and mean-field theories generally have integer occupation and the bands in metals and strongly correlated materials are partially occupied. Approximations like “smearing”—which smears the occupations away from integers using a temperature function—are often used to approximate partially occupied bands, and can be successful for metals, but these approximations have limitations. In correlated insulators, like Mott or charge-transfer insulators, DFT band structures predict the incorrect electronic behavior because the partially occupied bands become metallic in

the absence of a correct treatment of strong correlation. Efforts to obtain accurate band gaps or structures for materials with strong correlation using other methods are costly and typically require treatment of excited states [9, 18, 73].

For strongly correlated materials, we propose an alternative in which the ground-state electronic nature of materials is characterized by natural-orbital occupations. Natural orbitals are the eigenvectors of the 1-RDM [74]

1D⃗ηi λi⃗ηi (18)

where the eigenvalues, λi, of the natural orbitals (⃗ηi) represent the electronic occupations of the natural orbitals, which range from 0 to 2 in a spatial representation or 0 to 1 in a spin representation. The natural orbitals are thus an intrinsic property of the electronic system that can be produced from any electronic structure method, although the accuracy of the natural-orbital occupancies, particularly with respect to partial filling, depends on the ability of the method to treat strong correlation correctly. For example, DFT and mean-field methods are idempotent, meaning the natural-orbital occupancies are constrained to be integer values, and hence, do not necessarily yield accurate occupations for a strongly correlated system. Natural-orbital band structures are therefore applicable primarily to strongly correlated electronic structure methods.

Natural-orbital occupancies provide an intuitive alternative to energetic band structures for characterizing the nature of strongly correlated materials, as the occupancies are a direct representation of the filling of bands or orbitals and can indirectly indicate energy levels. Like energy levels, natural-orbital occupations exhibit degeneracies and crossings corresponding to the potential for electron mobility that can be used to characterize the conductance of the material. That is, uncorrelated insulators have fully occupied and unoccupied natural-orbital occupancy, but strong correlation shifts the natural orbitals towards fractional occupation. Consequently, in a semiconductor the occupations would be expected to deviate from fully occupied or unoccupied, but still possess a gap between primarily occupied and unoccupied bands. A metal would be more correlated, leading to significant deviations in occupation for a single band from one k-point to the next. Such deviations can result in equivalence or indirect crossing of natural-orbital bands predominantly opposite in occupation, i.e., bands which are mostly occupied and bands which are mostly unoccupied. Such crossing or degeneracy indicates potential for mobility of electrons between natural-orbital bands, thus indicating metallic behavior. In cases where conventional band theory fails, such as for correlated insulators, natural-orbital occupancies—if calculated with a method that correctly treats the strong correlation of the system—will provide information about electron filling and mobility to enable characterization of the electronic structure of the material. To make interpretation of the natural-orbital band structures clear relative to



--- Page 5 ---





--- Page 6 ---





--- Page 7 ---





--- Page 8 ---





--- Page 9 ---





--- Page 10 ---





--- Page 11 ---





--- Page 12 ---





--- Page 13 ---





--- Page 14 ---



